Create loriot-agent-5-0-0-improvements-in-endpoint-authorization-and-permissions.md (#4422)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/loriot-agent-5-0-0-improvements-in-endpoint-authorization-and-permissions.md

---
date: ""
title: Improvements in endpoint authorization and permissions
product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component-TCiiCOknp5
    label: LPWAN
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-ycWx1InI9
    label: loriot-agent
ticket: DM-5340
version: 5.0.0
---

> - `/lns-connection/**` endpoints require LoRa service-specific permissions i.e. ROLE_LORIOT_READ, ROLE_LORIOT_ADMIN. These endpoints are used when Loriot connections are configured and managed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `/lns-connection/**` endpoints are used when Loriot connections are configured and managed. These endpoints require LoRa service-specific permissions: ROLE_LORIOT_READ or ROLE_LORIOT_ADMIN. 
```

Reviewer 2: now totally changed the content :)

> - `/lns-connection/**` endpoints require LoRa service-specific permissions i.e. ROLE_LORIOT_READ, ROLE_LORIOT_ADMIN. These endpoints are used when Loriot connections are configured and managed.

Reviewer 3: These endpoints are not documented publicly and explanation is pretty technical.
Please think about in the user's perspective and where they might face a problem and how to solve it from the UI.
e.g they might face this in Administration -> Connectivity, are there more places where they can hit this problem.

Reviewer 2: content updated

> The required user permissions to read, create, or update Loriot connections under Administration > Connectivity have been updated. To read Loriot connections, users must have at least the Loriot READ permission, and to create/update/delete connections, users require the Loriot ADMIN permission. In the Device Management application, this affects the **LPWAN configuration** tab in the Loriot device details, as the **Current connection** field requires the READ permission. You can assign the necessary permissions to users in Administration > Accounts > Users/Roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The required user permissions to read, create, or update Loriot connections under Administration > Connectivity have been updated. To read Loriot connections, users must have at least the Loriot READ permission, and to create/update/delete connections, users require the Loriot ADMIN permission. In the Device Management application, this affects the **LPWAN configuration** tab in the Loriot device details, as the **Current connection** field requires READ permission. You can assign the necessary permissions to users in Administration > Accounts > Users/Roles.
```

> The required user permissions to read, create, or update "Loriot Connections" under Administration > Connectivity have been updated. In order to read Loriot connections, users must have at least the Loriot 'READ' permission, and to create/update/delete connections, users require the Loriot 'ADMIN' permission. In the Device Management application, this affects the LPWAN configuration tab in the Loriot device details, as the 'Current connection' field requires the 'READ' permission. You can assign the necessary permissions to users in Administration > Accounts > Users/Roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The required user permissions to read, create, or update Loriot connections under Administration > Connectivity have been updated. To read Loriot connections, users must have at least the Loriot READ permission, and to create/update/delete connections, users require the Loriot ADMIN permission. In the Device Management application, this affects the **LPWAN configuration** tab in the Loriot device details, as the **Current connection** field requires the READ permission. You can assign the necessary permissions to users in Administration > Accounts > Users/Roles.
```

---
date: ""
title: Improvements in endpoint authorization and permissions
product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component-TCiiCOknp5
    label: LPWAN
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-ycWx1InI9
    label: loriot-agent
ticket: DM-5340
version: 5.0.0
---

> - Disabled unused and potentially dangerous Spring Boot Actuator endpoints e.g. `/heapdump`.

Reviewer 4: Remove this line please
```suggestion
```

> - `/lns-connection/**` endpoints require LoRa service-specific permissions i.e. ROLE_LORIOT_READ, ROLE_LORIOT_ADMIN.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `/lns-connection/**` endpoints require LoRa service-specific permissions i.e. ROLE_LORIOT_READ, ROLE_LORIOT_ADMIN. These endpoints are used when Loriot connections are configured and managed.
```

ticket: DM-5340
version: 5.0.0
---

> The required user permissions to read, create, or update "Loriot Connections" under Administration > Connectivity have been updated. In order to read Loriot connections, users must have at least the Loriot 'READ' permission, and to create/update/delete connections, users require the 'ADMIN' permission. In the Device Management application, this affects the LPWAN configuration tab in the Loriot device details, as the 'Current connection' field requires the 'READ' permission. You can assign the necessary permissions to users in Administration > Accounts > Users/Roles.

Reviewer 3: ... users require the 'ADMIN' permission -> ... users require the Loriot 'ADMIN' permission
